# Grin Meeting Notes

Meeting notes from Grin Governance Council (GGC) developer and governance meetings.

Meetings are held bi-weekly in the GGC Telegram channel at 19:30 UTC.

## 2025
<details open>
<summary>Expand/collapse list of notes</summary>

Date | Topic | Agenda | Notes | Tl;dr |
|:---|:---|---|---|:---|
Dec 30 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/442) | [Notes](2025/20251230-meeting-development.md) | PIBD sync fix PR, Windows CI/MSI installer, UmbrelOS QR code linking, ARTI/Tor bridges |
Dec 16 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/441) | [Notes](2025/20251216-meeting-development.md) | UmbrelOS testing, testnet sync, Stack Wallet iOS debate |
Dec 02 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/440) | [Notes](2025/20251202-meeting-development.md) | Node sync improvements, UmbrelOS nearing completion, Stack Wallet discussion |
Nov 18 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/439) | [Notes](2025/20251118-meeting-development.md) | Maintainer shortage, PIBD debugging, governance access rights, Ardocrat maintaining offer |
Nov 04 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/438) | [Notes](2025/20251104-meeting-development.md) | CI setup, Post-Funding bounty system, Stack Wallet $20k request |
Oct 21 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/191) | [Notes](2025/20251021-meeting-development.md) | Website control resolved, GitHub org consolidation, Grin++ debugging for Umbrel |
Oct 07 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/190) | [Notes](2025/20251007-meeting-development.md) | Wallet config PR status, Grin++ banning Rust nodes, network sync issues |
Sep 23 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/189) | [Notes](2025/20250923-meeting-development.md) | First dev meeting in a long time, PR review bottleneck, developer funding discussion |
Sep 09 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/188) | | Umbrel/OS bounty progress, MultiSig RFC bounty, Node bug bounty idea |
Aug 26 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/187) | | Umbrel/OS bounty prize set, MultiSig RFC started, Cuckatoo miner bounty initiated |
Aug 12 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/186) | | Umbrel/OS bounty finalization, Grin.exchange announced, SuchGRIN.lol announced |
Jul 29 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/184) | | Grincoin.org $2500 donation approved, TG Bot bounty approved, Umbrel bounty discussed, BTC fund announced |
Jul 15 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/181) | | GitHub permissions, Telegram bot, BTC Fund process, Wallet discussion, Umbrel bounty idea |
Jul 01 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/179) | | BTC fund 4/7 multisig setup, GitHub organization for GGC, Pending payments |
Jun 17 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/177) | | Tor/Arti engagement, BTC fund multisig, mimblewimble GitHub org, site updates |
Jun 03 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/175) | | New governance structure, Keybase to Telegram migration, CC pending payments |
May 20 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/173) | | Governance CC Reset, new structure duties and responsibilities, Multisig development |
</details>

## 2021
<details>
<summary>Expand/collapse list of notes</summary>

Date | Topic | Agenda  | Notes | Tl;dr
|:---|:---|---|---|:---|
Apr 06 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/412)| | |
Mar 30 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/410)| | |
Mar 23 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/408)| [Notes](2021/20210323-meeting-development.md) | BP Vulnerability, Bug bounties, 5.1.0 release |
Mar 16 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/403)| [Notes](2021/20210316-meeting-governance.md) | Ledger bounty, Community funding |
Mar 09 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/400)| [Notes](2021/20210309-meeting-development.md) | Bug bounties, libsecp fork, PR cleanup, 5.1.0 release, archival nodes |
Mar 02 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/398)| [Notes](2021/20210302-meeting-governance.md) | Send ASIC to Hendi, Community funding |
Feb 23 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/396)| [Notes](2021/20210223-meeting-development.md) | Keybase bridges |
Feb 16 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/394)| [Notes](2021/20210216-meeting-governance.md) | Community funding, Antioch funding request |
Feb 09 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/391)| [Notes](2021/20210209-meeting-development.md) | Bug bounties, Github cleaning, Release planning, Branching policy |
Feb 02 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/388)| [Notes](2021/20210202-meeting-governance.md) | Discussion about Funding requests, Exchange support |
Jan 26 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/386)| [Notes](2021/20210126-meeting-development.md) | hard fork evaluation, post 5.0.0 wish list prioritization |
Jan 19 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/383)| [Notes](2021/20210119-meeting-governance.md) | 2021 priorities, VPS GPU testnet mining, aggregator bounty |
Jan 12 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/380)| [Notes](2021/20210112-meeting-development.md) | v5.0.0 last check up, post 5.0.0 wish list brainstorm |
Jan 05 | Hybrid | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/378)| [Notes](2021/20210105-meeting-governance.md) | v5 planning, ASICs ordering using General Fund |
</details>

## 2020
<details>
<summary>Expand/collapse list of notes</summary>

Date | Topic | Agenda  | Notes | Tl;dr
|:---|:---|---|---|:---|
Dec 22 | Hybrid | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/376) | [Notes](2020/20201222-meeting-development.md) | @dtavarez funding request, v5.0.0 planning, Naming, API listening on 0.0.0.0 |
Dec 15 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/374)| [Notes](2020/20201215-meeting-governance.md) | Holiday planning, Lehnberg Q1 2021 funding, PIBD RFC |
Dec 08 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/372) | [Notes](2020/20201208-meeting-development.md) | Slatepack, v5.0.0 planning, Naming, API listening on 0.0.0.0 |
Dec 01 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/370)| [Notes](2020/20201201-meeting-governance.md) | Slatepack, Fund for mining proposal, HTTPs deprecation, PIBD RFC |
Nov 24 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/368) | [Notes](2020/20201124-meeting-development.md) | Slatepack, Testnet, Re-org attack, v5.0.0 planning review |
Nov 17 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/366)| [Notes](2020/20201117-meeting-governance.md) | Slatepack, HTTPs deprecation, PIBD RFC |
Nov 10 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/363) | [Notes](2020/20201110-meeting-development.md) | Testnet mining, Re-org attack, v5.0.0 planning review |
Nov 03 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/360)| [Notes](2020/20201103-meeting-governance.md) | Council accountability, HTTPs deprecation |
Oct 27 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/358) | [Notes](2020/20201027-meeting-development.md) | v5.0.0 updates & risk mitigations, testnet mining |
Oct 20 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/355)| [Notes](2020/20201020-meeting-governance.md) | @jaspervdm funding request, RFC reviews, Council accountability |
Oct 13 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/353) | [Notes](2020/20201013-meeting-development.md) | Re-org  monitoring, v5.0.0 scope freeze, Grin-Pi |
Oct 06 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/351)| [Notes](2020/20201006-meeting-governance.md) | QA Funding request, @lehnberg funding request, deprecating http(s), floonet, RFC reviews |
Sep 29 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/348) | [Notes](2020/20200929-meeting-development.md) | re-org risk monitoring, v5.0.0 planning, slatepack adoption |
Sep 22 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/345)| [Notes](2020/20200922-meeting-governance.md) | @antiochp funding request, docs.grin.mw, simplify-governance, RFC reviews |
Sep 15 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/343) | [Notes](2020/20200915-meeting-development.md) | re-org risk monitoring, v4.1.0 release |
Sep 08 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/341)| [Notes](2020/20200908-meeting-governance.md) | @i1skn, @dtavarez funding requests, remove @ignotus as BDFL, remove @hashmap from core team, approve CoC change, new RFCs |
Sep 01 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/339) | [Notes](2020/20200901-meeting-development.md) | 5.0.0 planning, fix DAA, fee RFC, unscheduled hard forks, PIBD assignment |
Aug 25 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/336)| [Notes](2020/20200825-meeting-governance.md) | Documentation update, funding non-MW repo projects |
Aug 18 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/334) | [Notes](2020/20200818-meeting-development.md) | 5.0.0 planning, slatepack docs, eliminating finalize step, fee RFC / block size limit |
Aug 11 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/328)| [Notes](2020/20200811-meeting-governance.md) | ASIC AMA, CoC, Fix DAA, Wallet replay protection rules, Eliminating finalize step |
Aug 04 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/322) | [Notes](2020/20200804-meeting-development.md) | General v5.0.0 discussion, BP+, NRD, Eliminating finalize step, expiring kernels |
Jul 28 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/318)| [Notes](2020/20200728-meeting-governance.md) | Paouky funding request, CVE-2020-15899, scheduled hard forks |
Jul 21 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/316) | [Notes](2020/20200721-meeting-development.md) | replay attacks & mitigation, review of potential 5.0.0 items: 1-sided txs, duplicate outputs, NRD, expiring kernels, coinbase outputs, BP+ |
Jul 14 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/313)| [Notes](2020/20200714-meeting-governance.md) | Documentation, Replay/Play attack working group discussion |
Jul 07 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/310) | [Notes](2020/20200707-meeting-development.md) | v4.0.0 status, replay attacks, coinbase outputs, v5.0.0 planning |
Jun 30 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/306)| [Notes](2020/20200630-meeting-governance.md) | Yeast, Lehnberg, Antioch Q3 funding requests, Review of open RFCs, CoC & Documentation |
Jun 23 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/304) | [Notes](2020/20200623-meeting-development.md) | v4.0.0 status, v5.0.0 high level focus discussion |
Jun 16 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/302)| [Notes](2020/20200616-meeting-governance.md) | Review of open RFCs, Post 4.0.0 planning |
Jun 09 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/299) | [Notes](2020/20200609-meeting-development.md) | v4.0.0 status, replay attacks / kernel uniqueness |
Jun 02 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/297)| [Notes](2020/20200602-meeting-governance.md) | jaspervdm update, review of open RFCs, 4.0.0 beta |
May 26 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/293) | [Notes](2020/20200526-meeting-development.md) | v4.0.0 status, floonet HF3 date, kernel types, kernel uniqueness |
May 19 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/290)| [Notes](2020/20200519-meeting-governance.md) | Review of open RFCs |
May 12 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/288) | [Notes](2020/20200512-meeting-development.md) | Slatepack, http(s) deprecation decision, v4.0.0 status, release checklist |
May 05 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/285)| [Notes](2020/20200505-meeting-governance.md) | GUI wallets, http(s) deprecation, review of open RFCs |
Apr 28 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/281) | [Notes](2020/20200428-meeting-development.md) | v4.0.0 status, http(s) deprecation discussion, PayJoin priority |
Apr 21 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/276)| [Notes](2020/20200421-meeting-governance.md) | New keybase structure, review of open RFCs |
Apr 14 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/273) | [Notes](2020/20200414-meeting-development.md) | v4.0.0 status, soft forks, post v5.0.0 network upgrades |
Apr 07 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/270)| [Notes](2020/20200407-meeting-governance.md) | @antiochp funding request, @quentin paying discourse, review of open RFCs, scheduled hard forks |
Mar 31 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/267) | [Notes](2020/20200331-meeting-development.md) | v4.0.0 scope freeze & planning, update on transaction slate RFCs and approaches |
Mar 24 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/265)| [Notes](2020/20200324-meeting-governance.md) | @lehnberg funding request, discourse costs,  fund volatility, proof of work, moderation team, review of open RFCs |
Mar 17 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/261) | [Notes](2020/20200317-meeting-development.md) | v4.0.0 planning, Censorship resistance for tor txs, allow duplicate outputs |
Mar 10 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/259)| [Notes](2020/20200310-meeting-governance.md) | grin.mw access and domain expiry, @yeastplume funding request, review of open RFCs |
Mar 03 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/256) | [Notes](2020/20200303-meeting-development.md) | v4.0.0 planning, hard forks & upgrades after v5.0.0, sample project |
Feb 25 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/254)| [Notes](2020/20200225-meeting-governance.md) | @jaspervdm funding request, general fund spending guidelines, adding repos to github org, review of open RFCs |
Feb 18 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/251) | [Notes](2020/20200218-meeting-development.md) | v3.1.0 release for node, release schedule, croaring fails on CI |
Feb 11 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/249)| [Notes](2020/20200211-meeting-governance.md) | Review of open RFCs |
Feb 04 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/246) | [Notes](2020/20200204-meeting-development.md) | v3.1.0 planning, QA team & testing process |
Jan 28 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/243)| [Notes](2020/20200128-meeting-governance.md) | Book funding request, Rename sub-teams, RFC Shepherding, web update |
Jan 21 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/241) | [Notes](2020/20200121-meeting-development.md) | Triaging process, overlay networks/i2p on node, 3.0.0 < x < 4.0.0 release planning and processes, no min rust version, stable branch, /packaging |
Jan 14 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/233)| [Notes](2020/20200114-meeting-governance.md) | 2020 roadmap, Lehnberg funding request, Forum migration |
Jan 07 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/231)|[Notes](2020/20200107-meeting-development.md) | Initial 3.1 discussion, integration tests, /packaging |
</details>

## 2019
<details>
<summary>Expand/collapse list of notes</summary>

Date | Topic | Agenda  | Notes | Tl;dr
|:---|:---|---|---|:---|
Dec 17 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/227) | [Notes](2019/20191217-meeting-governance.md) | Yeast funding request, Moving meetings to Keybase, shares to grin.mw domain, rescheduling of meetings during holiday period |
Dec 10 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/224)| [Notes](2019/20191210-meeting-development.md) | 3.0.0 scope freeze discussion & communication doc |
Dec 03 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/220) | [Notes](2019/20191203-meeting-governance.md) | Grin forum & site update, Discussion re forum policies, Grincon1 evaluation, RFC review |
Nov 26 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/218)| [Notes](2019/20191126-meeting-development.md) | Review of 3.0.0 status, upgrade communications, /packaging repo, Grin project focus discussion, API v2. |
Nov 19 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/215) | [Notes](2019/20191119-meeting-governance.md) | Forum migration, Open research problems, Roadmap RFC |
Nov 12 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/213)| [Notes](2019/20191112-meeting-development.md) | Review of 3.0.0 status, define upgrade timelines. |
Nov 05 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/210) | [Notes](2019/20191105-meeting-governance.md) | Website onboarding improvements, Assignment of RFC shepherds, Open research problems |
Oct 29 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/206)| [Notes](2019/20191029-meeting-development.md) | Scope finalization of v3.0.0, release of node v2.1.1 |
Oct 22 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/201) | [Notes](2019/20191022-meeting-governance.md) | Open research problems, Grin 2020 roadmap, grincon1, website improvements |
Oct 15 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/198)| [Notes](2019/20191015-meeting-development.md) | Security audit publication date, 2.1.0 release, 3.0.0 planning, release packaging |
Oct 08 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/196) | [Notes](2019/20191008-meeting-governance.md) | Site redesign, grin.mw migration, grincon1, lehnberg request for funding |
Oct 01 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/193)| [Notes](2019/20191001-meeting-development.md) | Tor POC discussion, 2.1.0 betas, branching, kernel excess storage |
Sep 24 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/190) | [Notes](2019/20190924-meeting-governance.md) | Security audit publication, hiring a cryptographer, new website |
Sep 17 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/188)| [Notes](2019/20190917-meeting-development.md) | Canaries, Removal of Igno from security.md, Tor RFC, 2.1.0 progress update |
Sep 10 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/185) | [Notes](2019/20190910-meeting-governance.md) | Grincon1, events & moderation subteams |
Sep 03 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/183)| [Notes](2019/20190903-meeting-development.md) | v2.1.0 timelines, RFCs, security audit update |
Aug 27 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/176) | [Notes](2019/20190827-meeting-governance.md) | Yeastplume request for funding, fund management |
Aug 20 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/175)|[Notes](2019/20190820-meeting-development.md) | 2.1.0 & 3.0.0 planning, Security & Wallet RFCs review |
Aug 13 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/171) | [Notes](2019/20190813-meeting-governance.md) | Site redesign, yeastplume funding approach, security audit update |
Aug 06 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/169)|[Notes](2019/20190806-meeting-development.md) | Network hashrate, security audit progress |
Jul 30 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/165) | [Notes](2019/20190730-meeting-governance.md) | ETH & Grin addresses, Ledger development, Binance application, Security update, Moderation sub-team |
Jul 23 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/163)| [Notes](2019/20190723-meeting-development.md) | HF retrospective, decisions on version planning and branching model. |
Jul 16 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/161) | [Notes](2019/20190716-meeting-governance.md) | RFC process & subteam proposal adoptions, security audit update, website redesign |
Jul 09 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/157)| [Notes](2019/20190709-meeting-development.md) | Security audit update, 2.0.1 planning, node & wallet sub-teams. |
Jul 02 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/154) | [Notes](2019/20190702-meeting-governance.md) | RFC process & subteam trials, help with security audit work, 4th contact to SECURITY.MD |
Jun 25 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/151)| [Notes](2019/20190625-meeting-development.md) | POW Phaseouts on hold proposal, Update re tx slate compatibility, RFC process |
Jun 18 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/147) | [Notes](2019/20190618-meeting-governance.md) | Governance iteration, Bug bounties, third contact to SECURITY.MD |
Jun 11 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/143)| [Notes](2019/20190611-meeting-development.md) | v1.1.0 evaluation, v2.0.0 planning: binaries and private testnet timelines, branching model |
Jun 04 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/141) | [Notes](2019/20190604-meeting-governance.md) | Hard fork schedule, Grin budget, Governance working group, Pools & Exchanges contacts |
May 28 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/137)| [Notes](2019/20190528-meeting-development.md) | Detailed v1.1.0 and v2.0.0 planning |
May 21 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/134) | [Notes](2019/20190521-meeting-governance.md) | Coinspect audit payment, Grin budget feedback, Wiki access control  |
May 14 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/126)| [Notes](2019/20190514-meeting-development.md) | v1.1.0, and future version planning, Hard fork, Http depreciation |
May 07 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/115) | [Notes](2019/20190507-meeting-governance.md) | Budget, Transparency report, Simplified onboarding |
Apr 30 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/111)| [Notes](2019/20190430-meeting-development.md) | i2p, v1.1.0 + CI, Git branching, Slate versioning |
Apr 23 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/105) | [Notes](2019/20190423-meeting-governance.md) | Quarterly report, Budget, Promoting other projects, Evangelism |
Apr 16 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/102)| [Notes](2019/20190416-meeting-development.md) | CI status, Testing, Protocol versioning, 1.1.0 betas and branch handling |
Apr 09 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/93) | [Notes](2019/20190409-meeting-governance.md) | Improvement Proposal process, Proof of work phaseout changes, Funding for lehnberg, funding specific causes |
Apr 02 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/90)| [Notes](2019/20190402-meeting-development.md) | GitlabCI, v1.1.0 testing, v1.0.3 release |
Mar 26 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/87)| [Notes](2019/20190326-meeting-governance.md) | Antioch funding re-consideration, management of ETH, phase out schedule for Proof of Work |
Mar 19 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/77)| [Notes](2019/20190319-meeting-development.md) | TravisCI alternatives, v1.1.0 release date, v1.0.3 release, Hard fork timeline and process |
Mar 12 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/71)| [Notes](2019/20190312-meeting-governance.md) | Funding for Igno, CVE-2019-9195 post-mortem, Treasury management  |
Mar 05 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/68)| [Notes](2019/20190305-meeting-development.md) | v1.1.0 planning, nightly builds, rust-secp release |
Feb 26 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/66)| [Notes](2019/20190226-meeting-governance.md)| PR approach, Funding for Antioch  |
Feb 19 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/63)| [Notes](2019/20190219-meeting-development.md) | v1.0.2 release, Error management |
Feb 12 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/58) | [Notes](2019/20190212-meeting-governance.md) | Decision on security audit firm, Friends of Grin, Risk mgmt |
Feb 05 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/56)| [Notes](2019/20190205-meeting-development.md) | http deprecation, wallets |
Jan 29 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/46) | [Notes](2019/20190129-meeting-governance.md) | Fund transparency report, Promoting continuous donations, Grin stackexchange |
Jan 22 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/41) | [Notes](2019/20190122-meeting-development.md) | Mainnet retrospective, v1.1.0 planning, release work process, Contributing policy update |
Jan 17 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/37) | [Notes](2019/20190117-meeting-governance.md) | Security audit decision process, Promotion of supporting projects, Exchanges, New website, Communities on website, Currency code, currency symbol |
Jan 08 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/34) | [Notes](2019/20190108-meeting-development.md) | Pre mainnet launch status checks, initial v1.1.0 planning. |
Jan 03 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/31) |  [Notes](2019/20190103-meeting-governance.md) | Discussion of low mem GPU requirement implications, Bikeshedding polls to be organized. |
</details>

## 2018
<details>
<summary>Expand/collapse list of notes</summary>

Date | Topic |Agenda |Notes | Tl;dr |
|:---|:---|---|---|:---|
Dec 27 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/29) | [Notes](2018/20181227-meeting-development.md) | Re-floonet, libsecp audit results, Semver, Release planning. |
Dec 18 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/26) | [Notes](2018/20181218-meeting-governance.md) | Postponed 2nd audit, genesis release discussion |
Dec 11 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/24) | [Notes](2018/20181211-meeting-development.md) | Permanent testnet, Switch commitments, Dependency policy |
Dec 04 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/22) | [Notes](2018/20181204-meeting-governance.md) | 2nd Audit goes to Quarkslab, No Cuckaroo29+, Website design approval, Voting |
Nov 27 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/19) | [Notes](2018/20181127-meeting-development.md) | Windows support, PR Review process|
Nov 20 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/17) | [Notes](2018/20181120-meeting-governance.md) |  Jan 15 launch date target, incremental audits, not blocking mainnet, Cuckatoo31 switch, Exchanges, Conflicts of interest |
Nov 13 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/12) | [Notes](2018/20181113-meeting-development.md)| Wallet plugins, POW naming, mainnet planning |
Nov 06 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/5) |[Notes](2018/20181106-meeting-governance.md) |  Grincon, Audits, Mission |
Oct 30 | Development | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/4) | [Notes](2018/20181030-meeting-development.md)| Detailed Mainnet planning |
Oct 23 | Governance | [Agenda](https://github.com/mimblewimble/grin-pm/issues/1) | [Notes](2018/20181023-meeting-governance.md)| Audit entity, funding, Risk management, Cuckaroo, inital mainnet target period |
Oct 16 | Development | | [Notes](2018/20181016-meeting-development.md)|  BetterHash mining protocol, DHT-style tx building |
Oct 09 | Governance | | [Notes](2018/20181009-meeting-governance.md) | Audits, Grin-PM repo |
</details>

## Naming Convention

Meeting notes follow the pattern: `YYYYMMDD-meeting-{governance|development}.md`
